# Jeffrey Liang's MA Economics Work Samples
This is a collection of work I have done for graduate school that I'm proud of. Projects have deliberately been listed in this order to highlight my best work.

The initial upload of files consists of the work that was submitted for evaluation or, if it was not required to be submitted, its state when the rest of the assignment was submitted. However, I have subsequently improved the data retrieval script for my Econometrics paper. All these edits can be seen as commits.

Enjoy!

# Description of Projects
- **Econometrics Paper - Uniswap Airdrop**: The assignment was to write an empirical paper investigating an economic issue. I chose to research how recipients of the first major crypto airdrop reacted to the sudden windfall income. This event distributed a significant portion of the equity of the protocol to past users. I wrote a NodeJS program to retrieve blockchain data from APIs and process it for use then analyzed it using R. All code is present in the folder "Data Retrieval and Analysis" (except API keys). I find that the airdrop was not very effective at decentralizing and furthering the Uniswap protocol. Most recipients sold their airdrop almost immediately so that it served mainly as a wealth transfer. I note the similarity in outcome with voucher privatization in Russia shortly after the fall of the Soviet Union and conjecture that this is a result of how people typically respond when they receive free equity due to risk aversion and poor information.
- **Optimal Transport Assignments**: In this ongoing PhD Math class, most of our grades come from three problem sets and a written report. I've uploaded my answers for the first two problem sets. The problems mostly relate to measure theory, functional analysis and convex analysis along with some differential geometry. I chose to write my report on entropic regularized optimal transport which has become very important in computational optimal transport with broad applications in data science, machine learning, economics, and statistics. I plan to upload the third problem set and the final version of the report in the first week of April. 
- **Macro - Real Business Cycle Model**: The assignment was to solve stochastic macroeconomic models computationally using value function iteration. We were given sample code in MATLAB but I chose to use Python and NumPy instead. We had to load parameters from file and iterately compute the value function using the Bellman equation to approximate the true value function. I went the extra mile and coded it to save the value function to file and load it upon a fresh run as well as completing all the bonus questions. I then simulated the model using this and computed, graphed and saved policy-relevant quantities like optimal consumption choices as a function of owned capital and overall productivity, and impulse response functions. 
- **Public Paper - Capital Income Taxation Reform**: The assignment was to write a literature review on a topic of current policy interest. I chose to write about capital income taxation reform as that is often discussed in Canada and elsewhere recently. I find that while simple neoclassical models predict high efficiency losses from capital income taxation, there are many realistic extensions where these are substantially reduced or even reversed. Therefore, increasing capital income taxes may be desirable because it increases progressivity while not materially altering savings in practice. However, capital income is not enough of a portion of total income in Canada for this to solve the enormous revenue and debt problems created in the wake of COVID-19. On the flip side, if we believe that individuals are saving too little for their own good, the evidence suggests that targeted savings programs like Registered Retirement Savings Plans (or IRAs in the US) will be more effective than reducing capital income taxes.